# FYP
My Project is about how data science has revolutionised football into the modern era it is in now. This has been done by delving deeper into the stats behind each player so a team can make more effective decisions with their current players or transfer targets. Films such as ‘Moneyball’ have highlighted the importance of stats in sports but my project will focus on football, however it will be easily adjustable to suit different datasets or sports. Although I do not have a hypothesis with my project, I do believe that with the correct data, there can be more accurate and effective analysis on players resulting in a higher ROI. Although I cannot prove whether there will be an increase in ROI for a club that uses my project, I can show the depth of analysis possible with my final product.
My motivation behind this project is from my personal interest in football and the hectic transfer windows that happen twice a year.From the perspective of a fan, there would be times where a club would sign a player that the fans did not agree with. This sparked my interest in the behind the scenes work that went into scouting and signing a new player as I wanted to understand why certain decisions were made. Liverpool FC and Arsenal FC are the most recent examples of how signing and starting players who were previously under the radar can have an exponential impact on the success of the club. For example, Mohammed Salah, from Liverpool, was a relatively average player who had glimpses of top quality skill but did not show enough for a top level move. However Liverpool came in to acquire the player and now he is one of the best players in the world within a few years of moving to his new club. The ability to look at a player's data and output allowed them to make the decision to sign him and place him in the starting 11 for their team. This analysis allowed them to sign a world class player for a price which was much cheaper than what he was worth as no other club did the proper analysis on him.
Other examples are: Saka, Martinelli, Saliba and Trent Alexander Arnold from Arsenal and Liverpool. The business the clubs were able to pull off all stemmed from their data scientists which directly ties in to my end goal of my project.
The film ‘Moneyball’ also displayed the impact of this technique on the big screen, based on a true story where a new set of staff (a GM and an analyst) allowed a below average team to go on the biggest winning streak at the time in Baseball. Their technique was a new idea at the time as instead of signing a player on how they looked in game, they signed players, for low prices, based on the stats they delivered. as a result of this they broke records and changed how every club ran themselves after their breakout season
My goal for my project is to deliver a program that will allow the user to perform in depth analysis of every player in the dataset, as a result the program can be used to train new data analysts for different sports by using real world data resulting in a higher output from professional clubs.
My work will be significant as I intend to make it so it is easy for the code to be adjusted to suit different sports or datasets making it very flexible. This will benefit consumers within the sport scouting and analysis sector as it will allow them to easily compare and discover players to find how to get the most out of them. From the business perspective the use of this technology will allow the club to gain a higher return on investment to present to their shareholders, thus boosting the value of the business and allowing more growth in the same timeframe.
Due to this work and discovery of a new method of scouting, clubs all over the world in different sports have altered the way they look at players. but I believe the way this is conducted can be changed if some   of the data being analysed now is not as useful as it is made out to be, so my project will only be focusing on the data that is necessary to allow a quicker but just as effective analysis.
The main stakeholders of this project are: clubs, managers, players, scouts and sports fans. Professional clubs are a stakeholder as they can use the program to decide whether their manager or players are working well together as it allows them to look deeper into the stats. Managers and players will be able to analyse their performances and their teammates performances to gain an insight into how they are excelling or falling behind compared to other players/ teams. The scouts can use the program to find underrated stars and rising talents to help the clubs invest their money better to gain an increased ROI from their budgets. As a sports fan the project can let them use the code to understand why their club is making decisions, for example they can use the code t understand why their manager is playing certain people instead of others as they can see the stats the player is producing. 

Legal:
The legal/ ethical issues associated with my project mainly concern the use of the dataset, however I have already checked and made sure the dataset is valid and authentic to use for my project. This is important as we do not want to be using fake or altered data in a project which can greatly affect a team's business and have major consequences. Another legal consideration is the GDPR act that was signed in may 2016, this monitors and limits the use of data and makes it necessary to alert the user on how data is being stored and the intended use for it.
Another legal consideration is the CCPA act which makes it mandatory to allow the user to request their data to be deleted, to give the user control of how their data is collected and distributed.
Making sure my program is compliant with these laws is important as if the project was publicised, it would have to comply in order for it to be publicly usable. Or, the users could take legal action against the company using it as it does not comply with the legislations. 

Social:
A social consideration would be how environmentally impactful this project is. However, as the project can allow teams to scout players by the data collected instead of flying out scouts to constantly make trips back and forth to scout and report on the player, the project can reduce the amount of greenhouse gases released in this process.
Another social consideration is to make sure the program isn't exclusive to a certain category of people. It is important to be inclusive on who can use the program as it can also help improve the total output of the project if anyone can use it.
Ethical:
There are some ethical issues that concern my project. One of these is, how different clubs will have an advantage over their competitors if they have access to this tool and they do not. This is because it will allow a team to outperform their competitors by acquiring better players through their data driven response which can yield a higher return in comparison to the other club.
Another ethical issue is how it will impact the labour market of the scouting industry within the football scope. Although the program may reduce the amount of people going to watch a player to scout them, it will greatly increase the amount of jobs within the tech portion of the company. This is an ethical issue, however due to the advancements in the world it is an adjustment that is bound to happen either way. So, I do not believe my program will have a great effect in accelerating this adjustment.
The issue of misleading data is also a concern as it is very important to make sure the data that is being used is very accurate, to reduce the amount of incorrect data that is being presented by the program. To make sure this project does not contribute to providing misleading data, it was important to make sure the dataset was collected from a reliable source

